( bright tone )
Ah, good day, everyone,
and welcome to, uh,
a special in-depth look
of "Escape the Night,"
season three,
uh, behind the scenes.
So if you have not seen
"Escape the Night,"
season three, yet,
stop right now.
There are about
to be some spoilers
that are about to happen
in this video,
so I would highly suggest,
if you haven't seen
the show yet,
to go start
from episode one,
binge it right now,
and then you can come back
and see the behind-the-scenes.
( percussive dance music )
♪ ♪
Joey: What do you want to say?
Ah, good day, everyone.
And welcome to today's video.
Um, so guys, it has been
a crazy, wild day today.
Um, we're on episode five
right now.
Ho-ly crap.
Things just went up
a whole 'nother level.
Like, it was in-tense.
- Hi!
- Hey.
Joey: What did you think
of everything
that just happened?
I was shooky,
shook, shook.
- I'm gaga.
- Joey: That was insane.
I'm still tired, yo.
I cannot believe it.
I was not expecting that
at all.
I'm shocked.
I swear, I was getting chills
on my whole body,
and I was like, "Oh, my God.
( mutters )
And then I was like,
"This is great!
It's [bleep] great!"
You have to, like, take
your emotions somewhere else.
You're like, "Yeah!
It's great!"
Let it out somehow,
but not in tears.
That's, like,
what I had to do.
( laughter )
I was like, "Whoo!"
( spacey percussive music )
♪ ♪
I love Manny Mua.
He brings so much sass
to anything he touches.
It felt like a '70s
sleazy record producer
was who he would've been.
( laughs )
I end the care meeting like...
( laughter )
Joey: So Manny is a close
friend of mine,
and he is a boy
who wears makeup,
uh, and we definitely had
a lot of connections
about being, like,
the two gay guys in the cast
and just kind of
that dynamic of the group.
Um, but he definitely
threw out a lot
of really funny one-liners
that I'm so glad, um,
were caught by camera.
Manny: Oh, that's vile.
It's vile.
It smells like
[bleep] fish vagina.
He would say stuff
that I can't--
I couldn't write.
And at this rate, the guys
are dropping like flies.
( gasps )
Don't look at me.
I'm one of the girls.
Adam: I love that he
and Nikita
kind of became
the mean girls,
and Matt and Ro
became the boy scouts,
right, and Joey got lost
in the middle
of, like, "Hey, let me wrangle
these two sides."
He was by far
the strongest person
in the group,
and it's so fun to see the guy
with the full face of makeup
being the strongest guy there.
Joey: I feel like
there's definitely
a lot of stereotypes
of guys who wear makeup
are just, like,
really feminine and weak,
and it's cool
that he basically
was like, "Yeah, I am
a guy who wears makeup,
but I'm also a badass."
The clown with, like,
the knife and, like,
the six pack,
- the one I was, like,
rooting for.
- Yeah, he likes you.
I think he's so fire.
He was like,
"So you're
the pretty one, huh?"
I was like, "Yeah..."
- And I was like, kind of
living for the whole moment.
- Teala: Yes, bitch.
But then he, like,
had his knife
and he was like,
going it along, like, my side,
Teala: Ooh!
The [bleep]?
Like, okay, this is so weird,
'cause I was like,
kind of like,
- "This bitch is trying."
- You like getting fancy
with it?
So he goes back
and he, like, does it,
and then he, like, goes by
and grazes my dick
with the knife.
Teala: No, he did not!
I swear on my life,
and I'm not kidding.
I look over at Safiya
and I'm like,
"This bitch trying to
get me hard."
( laughter )
I swear to God!
- I was shook.
- And it's working.
And I was like,
"And it's working,"
because I'm looking
straight down...
( spacey music )
♪ ♪
So Teala was the super spy,
and her outfit was, like,
this really cool
bronze metallic look
um, and she looked
so freaking cool in it.
♪ ♪
Manny: It's art.
Incredible.
Just, like, hard shell--
- Oh, it's you?
You got these?
- Yeah, you want some?
- [bleep] me up.
They're delicious.
- They're Trolli Eggs.
- I'll have a little more.
- Yeah.
I feel so bad,
because she kind of
became everyone's first target,
and that just happens
in the game.
Like, everyone's just, like,
trying to save themselves,
so they're like,
"Okay, who's the weakest link
that we can pin this on
for the voting?"
I know everybody voted me in,
'cause the blacks
always die first.
- ( laughter )
- I knew that.
I knew that.
Even though the group
had kind of gotten against her,
they felt like
she wasn't performing
as well as she should,
she had a knack
at surviving challenges
and not getting voted on,
and she had, sort of,
the devil's touch.
- Colleen: A man has his arm
down on my chest...
- No, nope.
- Colleen: And is pushing
down on me in the bed.
- Absolutely not.
- Colleen: So, like, I was
being pressed into the bed.
- No.
Colleen: I can't scream,
and then there's a shadow at
the foot of it,
like, perched up--
- Nikita: No, babe.
Shut the [bleep] up.
Joey: But Teala was a lot
of fun to have on set.
She was telling us
some really crazy,
funny, dramatic stories
behind the scenes.
Um, I don't know
if they could make the cut,
because they were a little,
uh, explicit,
but, uh, very, very interesting
stories she had.
- Oh, my God, that's so me.
- Have you ever had a dream
that's so intense,
that in the dream, you're like,
"I need to wake up right now,"
and you wake up?
- Yeah.
- Or sex dreams,
and you actually think
you [bleep] a person?
Just me?
Oh, bitch, absolutely.
( screams )
( percussive music )
Adam: So Jc was our hippie,
and it felt like he has
such a cool, easy vibe
about him,
felt like it was just
the right fit for him
in the '70s.
Joey: Obvious choice.
I was like, "That is--
that is Jc
as, like, a person
in the nowadays."
He's like a--
a nowadays hippie,
so it just fit him.
Adam: He just had this nice,
mellow flavor
that would let him have
these unsuspecting moments
of surprises or jokes.
When he would solve something,
it would catch
the other YouTubers off-guard
because they thought he was
just playing it cool,
but his head
was really working.
He started solving
the clues, like,
that I didn't even understand
what was going on.
We, uh--we unlocked
- the briefcase,
and we found this.
- Safiya: Yeah.
- Nice.
- So what happened?
What'd you guys--
Joey: I was definitely
very disappointed
so see Jc go home first.
It always sucks to be
the first one to go home,
but he had to choose
who went in for him,
and it just so happens
that Matt
is the one who voted him in,
and he chose Matt
to fight for him.
( dramatic music )
Adam: And this funny thing is,
Jc just had this odd hunch
about it
after he picked Matt,
and he said, you know,
"Wouldn't it be screwed up
if Matt's the one
who voted me in,"
and Matt laughs,
but Matt is the one who did.
( dramatic knife sound )
Jc: Oh, I've got a big,
almost, like...
Hey, I was straight last night.
I flirted with a witch.
- Matt: ( gasps )
- Yeah.
I put on my
( deeply ) straight voice
- 'Sup. Yeah.
- Matt: Oh, sh--
Matt: Not the straight Joey.
- Yeah, man.
- Rosanna: We're over
there, I think.
I can barely hear
anything...
- Pretty sick.
Rosanna: But his clothes
just start coming off,
- and I was like, "Ooh."
- I'm sick.
Rosanna: Joey's clothes
just start coming off.
He goes over there
and there--
I was like, "Oh, oh."
Hi, I'm Ken.
Doesn't move.
Uh, okay, so things
got real heated
in the last episode.
- Colleen came for my wig...
- For blood.
And she snatched it
right off my head.
- Snatched it.
- We're not friends anymore.
- No, no more.
Not at all.
- Just kidding.
- He was like, "Bring
the drama"--
- Who wants to be friends
with a coward?
all: Ooh!
Joey, was like,
"Bring the drama.
Let's do this thing,"
and I was like, I--
I had an instinct.
It was so good.
So believable.
I really felt
like you hated me.
Oh, no!
- You're my favorite.
- The tears were real.
I know.
Joey: So crazy story:
Colleen was actually
the very first person
I asked to do
"Escape the Night,"
season one,
um, 'cause she's one
of my closest friends,
she was the first person
on my mind,
um, but due to, like,
scheduling and stuff,
uh, it didn't work out
until this season,
but I still think
everything happens
for a reason,
and she was amazing
this season--
definitely a character type
that we didn't have,
um, that was just perfect.
So the amazing
Colleen Ballinger
was our disco dancer,
and she's such
a beautiful woman,
and putting her
in this disco outfit
felt like the right place
for her to live,
and also the right energy,
this sort of carefree energy
that can turn on a moment
and snap.
I didn't know that she
was so competitive,
but it was so funny
to slowly see her, like,
unravel how competitive
she was.
Um, you could definitely
see that
in the Jenga challenge.
She was just getting
so frustrated with us.
I was like,
"I will just kill myself
just for this game
to be over."
Like, I was so annoyed
at Jenga.
I was like, "Why are we playing
Jenga for seven hours?"
When she felt like somebody
wasn't standing up
for themselves,
or wasn't doing enough,
boy, she got on them about it.
When she was upset with Joey,
she drove it into the ground.
Like, I loved you
back in our old land,
but this land, you are sketchy,
and I don't trust you anymore.
Colleen and I kind of, like,
built up this, like, drama
between the two of us,
but obviously, like,
we're still good friends.
Like, it was all
just for show
and, like, behind the scenes,
we were totally like,
"How can we, like, spice up
our drama between each other?"
Um, so it was all just, like,
fun and games.
I'm, like, the least
confrontational person
on the planet,
so to play that
was really fun,
- 'cause I would,
in real life...
- Yeah.
- You'd be shaking.
- That would give me
so much diarrhea.
- You'd be over--
the same.
- IBS the house.
- I would--I'd be a mess.
So I was like,
"Ooh, a chance to, like,
- do something I
would never do."
- And you knew I--
you knew that I wouldn't--
I knew you were--
I knew, in your head,
you were like,
"Yes, give me the drama."
- Yeah.
- Even though you were
- yelling back at me
and crying and--
- Yes, drama, honey.
'Sup.
Man: 'Sup.
Show you some dance moves
I learned.
- Man: Yeah.
- There you go.
You go do all this
and go like that.
Oh!
I learned that the other day.
It was cool.
Or you can go like this
Man: Oh!
So Roi is someone
that I actually hadn't met
before shooting,
but I definitely had watched
his videos a lot
and have been inspired
from his videos in the past,
so I thought it was
really cool that he was down
to be in the show,
especially because
he has, like,
such a big, wild personality.
I was like, "You know what?
He's gonna be the daredevil."
I gave you a chance,
- and this is--look at it.
- And nada.
You want--you want me to do it?
- You want me to do it?
- I want you to do it.
If you are the daredevil
of this group,
then prove it.
All right.
Check this out, then.
all: Oh!
Adam: He's somebody who dives
into a bath of slime
once a week on YouTube,
at least,
um, plays
with dangerous animals,
and in real life,
is a bit of a daredevil.
What I like so much
about that
is Guava got into that.
He's like, "Great.
I'm the daredevil.
I'm gonna get into it,"
and when he got bit
by the snake woman
and he couldn't fight back,
he was upset,
'cause he wasn't helping
the group,
and I think he has
such a great phys--
he's such a physical actor
and physical comedian
that when he would get bit,
or when something
would happen to him
and he'd get captured,
he'd play it up
in really an engaging way.
Like, there was a moment
where we walk into town
and this woman walks out
and a spider crawls out
of her mouth,
and he's like, "Cool!
That's awesome!"
and we're all like,
"What the hell?"
and we're, like, screaming
and running away,
and he was, like,
intrigued by it.
Um, I don't know if that means
he's a daredevil,
or a psychopath,
but, uh, it's something.
( spacey music )
♪ ♪
Safiya became
the investigative reporter
because that's pretty much
suits her very well,
based off her channel
and the types of video
that she does,
um, so it was just, like,
the perfect fit for her.
Adam: That girl could remember
everything she did
when she left an episode,
which is very hard to do,
because so much is happening
in real time.
She could remember the details
and intricacies of clues,
and she could help solve them
in a really engaging way.
One, two, three, four,
five, six.
- ( gasps )
- Oh, my God.
Joey: When the clowns
shot up their guns
and they started
barging into town,
she ran off, like,
way out of, like, the set,
and she was, like,
hiding behind cameramen,
and, like, producers.
You thought I was hiding
in somewhere else.
- Rosanna: Yeah, nobody
could tell where she was.
- She was literally hiding
with the, like,
actual, like, crew.
- Rosanna: With the actors.
Roi: Really?
( laughter )
The clowns were
the scariest villains for me,
because they were multiples
of them
and you didn't know, like,
where they were coming from,
- so they could, like,
surround you...
- Yeah.
Versus, like, having one,
or I guess, in this case,
like, two,
but, like,
if you have, like one,
you're like,
"Okay, that's where they are."
Adam: One of the unique things
about the show is it's a
collaborative storytelling.
I've written the stories
and written
the other characters' lines,
and--but then,
when the YouTubers
come into it,
it becomes new again,
and they make choices
that we react to real-time,
and I think that
of all the YouTubers,
she had a level of investment
in wanting to really give
to the story,
and she knew how to say,
"Oh, this is the story
that's trying to be told,
and how can I lean into it?"
and it really helped her
come to life in a special way.
- Joey: Seconds.
- And she goes--she goes--
"[bleep] you, Joey!"
Joey: "What the [bleep]
are you doing
with [bleep] off?"
- "You [bleep] go to--"
- Joey: Voice is literally--
Matt: Right, isn't it crazy?
She, like, shakes.
What are you talking about?
Um, I was just talking
about how we're about
to make a whole movie
on this, right?
That's what it's for?
A sex tape?
- I didn't want to say that.
- Two blondes?
( gasps )
Two blondes, one wig.
Two blondes, one--
one of us has--
only one of us has a wig
by the end of it.
Just... go!
Wait, are you saying
that I'm wearing a wig?
I will say, the one
special effects illusion
that I live for in this season
is how skin-ty they made me.
I'm actually
very thick.
Oh!
Oh, my gosh.
- Joey: She's a thicker.
- She's a s--thick squirrel.
Ro's gonna carry my badge!
Joey: Oh, my God.
Yes.
- Rosanna: I got you.
- Graceful.
( electronic dance music )
♪ ♪
Adam: Nikita Dragun
is somebody
who I was very excited
to bring to the cast,
because of the troublemaker
she really is,
and the divisive energy
she brought to the group
created such great drama
and created
such comedic moments.
I swear on everything, though,
yesterday,
when Manny and I
were in the elevator,
about to fight
for our [bleep] lives,
I was standing there,
and out of nowhere,
I had to pee so bad,
and that was the first time
in my entire life
I thought
I was gonna lose control.
( laughter )
And I fully was like,
"If I start peeing,"
like, I'm just like,
'It's a character choice.'"
( laughter )
So this season, um,
as the casting process
was happening,
felt very "Kumbaya,"
like everyone was going
to get along,
which ended up
pretty much happening,
A lot of drama did unfold,
um, but Nikita
was definitely someone
that I knew
would stir the pot,
so as soon as she became
part of the cast,
I knew that she
was going to be
a very important role.
And I'm, you know,
obviously to--facing the front,
and I just see, literally,
the producer, like,
"Get out of the car,"
or she was like,
"Open the door,"
and just kept, like,
mouthing it,
and I was dead-ass
staring at her,
straight in the face, like...
( laughter )
One thing I loved
about Nikita
is that when people
were spilling their guts,
she didn't buy it,
and she said,
"Great, thanks
for your feelings.
Let's get those out of here."
Can I say something?
I'm honestly just over us
communing and talking
in all these little corners.
I know I'm the troublemaker.
Ha, ha, ha, hee-hee.
Is he?
Because I was literally that,
and like, just saying things,
and like, I don't know.
I'm a fat bitch.
I can't die.
Nikita's definitely
one of those people
that will just cut you off
if you're going on a tangent
for too long,
and she'll just reel us back in
and be like,
"All right, guys.
This is what we need to do."
We got one in the bag, bitches.
All right, well,
we have to work
as fast as possible,
- because Teala is, like...
- There's ashtrays
over here, too.
Literally dying.
Which might not be
such a bad thing, guys.
Nikita definitely made us all
laugh a lot,
and she was one
of those people
that didn't filter herself,
so, uh,
I think people
were definitely intimidated,
and a little afraid of her
at first,
but as the season progressed,
she definitely proved herself.
It's so wild,
because a lot of these people
I've never actually met before,
and after this experience,
I feel like...
I have so many new friends.
Like, you really are put
in this situation
where you're fighting
for your life,
you really feel it,
you're immersed,
and you're really just all
thinking collaboratively,
like, "Oh, my God,
what the F is going on?"
and it's just so crazy,
but my outfit's really cute.
This is so dangerous!
( laughter )
I don't even have a license.
- Man: You gotta back down.
- You were rolling?
I'm definitely very happy
that she survived to the end,
just because she was
a lot of fun
to, uh, hang out with,
not only, like,
while filming,
but also behind the scenes.
She was definitely
very professional
and never complained once,
and it was just such a joy
to have her on set.
Who would have thought
the smart genius,
extraordinaire puzzle-maker,
me...
Just kidding.
- Yeah, no, that was--
- That's you.
- No, you--you were, like--
you got through it, girl.
I can tell you that Del Taco
has the best Diet Coke
of, like, those--
Burger King's a bit expensive.
( electronic dance music )
♪ ♪
So Matpat was the detective,
and I feel like that fit him
so well.
I feel like, honestly, any
character would've fit him,
because he became so invested
in his character
and the world
that was created.
I've been bonding
with people, okay?
- I'm detecting.
- Jc: He just said there's
someone that's not real.
Honestly, when I asked Matt
to do the show, I was like,
"You know what?
He's actually gonna be
really good at this."
Like, he's the type of person
who can, like,
dig beneath layers of things
and I just--I was like,
"I feel like we're gonna
have to make this harder
because he's a part of it."
Great, so we're done
dealing with snakes.
Now we're dealing with lizards?
- Safiya: Actually, it says
"Lazarus."
- Teala: "Lazarus."
- Safiya: You misread it.
- Oh, those are--
those are two
very different things.
Roi: Okay.
( laughter )
Teala: Wait, Manny--
his face go--
Adam: He is
a unique performer,
because he was once
a Broadway actor,
but he also has a degree
in neuroscience,
and he's very analytical.
He's amazing
at the clue solves.
He knew how to capture
the moment he was in
and play it
so that the other YouTubers
and the audience
could feel it.
They have no clue
that you're there.
I think they just think
you smell really nice.
You just smell fresh
like powder.
Joey: So Matt was actually
super bummed
when he died
fighting against Manny.
( tragic music )
( quietly )
There will be revenge.
And I knew that
when he would find out
that he got to come back,
he would be super excited.
Hey!
It's me.
I'm back.
Come back from the dead!
Whoo!
Matt is actually
the very first person
in "Escape the Night" series
to come back
into the competition
after being killed off,
um, and I'm so happy
that it was Matt.
We didn't know Matt
was gonna die
the episode before,
and so literally wasn't until
Joey and Safiya
grabbed the coin
and said
"Who are we gonna decide,"
and then Joey came to me
and said,
"Adam,
can we bring back Matt?"
Ever since I found out
that I was dead,
but was coming back to life,
I've been trying to think of
some of the answers
to questions
that I would be expected
to answer if I was--
or stuff I would want to know
if I saw someone
who had come back
from the dead,
like, "What's it like?
Is there life?"
And I'm trying to figure out
how it can work out
into my overall storyline.
Right?
'Cause I think I can use this
not just as an advantage
of getting
to play the game more,
but as, like,
an emotional token to use
to help secure new alliances.
With Joey on my side,
I might be able
to make it to the end.
- Matt: The jack now?
I have a key.
- Ro: Yes.
- We're on our way.
- ( yelling and screaming )
Ah, go!
Go!
( synth music )
♪ ♪
Adam: Rosanna
was our jet-setter,
and I love this archetype
for her,
because a jet-setter
is somebody
who was bouncing
around the world,
had lots of money,
was social,
and had a big smile,
and I think Rosanna
just embodies
this go-between person
who has--is friends
with everyone,
is sweet, is nice, wants
nothing bad
to happen to anyone.
When the group would gang up
on somebody,
she felt bad about them,
and so it gave us
this wonderful sense of empathy
and feeling
that we don't often catch
from the YouTubers.
Rosanna was
so freaking adorable,
it was just so hard
to not, like,
just want to pinch her
every single second,
because she was
so damn cute
and she was just
the sweetest girl on set.
She definitely had, uh,
some emotional moments.
She got real invested.
I remember
when she voted Nikita
into the challenge
and Nikita's name got picked.
No, Ro, stop!
Are you kidding?
No, don't feel bad at all!
- I am the troublemaker girl.
I would vote for myself, too.
- ( laughter )
Can you just lie and say
you voted for the pretty one?
That would make me feel better.
One of the cutest
freaking moments
was when I was like, "Ro,
"you need to step up,
"you need to go out
to those witches
and try and save that woman,"
and she's like, "Yeah."
It, like, literally took
no convincing at all.
She was like, "Yeah,
I-I need to go do that."
Hey.
Hey, ladies!
I just need to take her
with me.
I know you guys
are so busy,
so I don't want to, like,
waste your time.
Would you like to trade places
with her?
It was the most adorable moment
ever,
and I was just, like, laughing
and smiling so much.
She was just so cute.
( sputtering )
It's so deep!
Do they know how short I am?
( sputtering )
I think what happened
with season three
was Joey and I's fantasy world
grew up.
We got bigger monsters,
bigger sets,
Ferris wheels, a carnival,
and I think in so many ways,
we've grown up
making the show
over the last three years,
and to see these fantasies
come into space
in front of you
and to see them grow
and become more aggressive
and more complex
and more interesting
is quite a humbling thing,
and I think as I look back
at this season
and our--Joey and I's
time together making it,
I feel like we've grown up
a little.
All right-y!
Well, I guess that
about wraps up
the behind-the-scenes look
of "Escape the Night,"
season three.
I really hope you guys enjoyed
this deeper look
at what happened
behind the scenes,
um, and got more of a--
a inside look of each
of your favorite YouTubers
uh, and yeah,
I guess that's it.
I want to give you guys
a huge thank-you
for being so supportive
of this series.
It's honestly
one of my favorite things
I get to do in life,
uh, so here's to hopefully
getting to do a season four.
Uh, but yeah,
that's it for today.
I will see you guys next time.
Good-damn-bye.
( upbeat synth music )
♪ ♪
( laughter )
( bright tone )